Add negative-start rule (#399)
unicode-org/message-format-wg: spec/syntax.md

The characters `\` and `|` MUST be escaped as `\\` and `\|`.

> **_Unquoted_** literals have a much more restricted range that

Reviewer: I think this is missing some information that could help avoid repeats of the conversation in this PR.

```suggestion
A _literal_ MAY appear **_unquoted_** when its content matches
the `unquoted` production. 

Similar to other productions in the message syntax,
the content of an _unquoted_ literal is identical to XML's [Nmtoken]
(https://www.w3.org/TR/xml/#NT-Nmtoken) except that specific characters
meaningful to other portions of the syntax are not allowed at the start. Specifically:

* A _literal_ MUST be quoted if it begins with a `:` (U+003A COLON).
* An _unquoted_ literal MUST NOT begin with a `-`  (U+002D HYPHEN MINUS)
unless that character is followed by a `.` (U+002E FULL STOP) or an ASCII digit.
This allows literals which might be used to represent negative numbers, such 
as `-42` or `-.345`, to appear unquoted.
```

Author: I'm fine with being more verbose about the description here, but the above suggestion is a bit problematic:
- The first paragraph is somewhat tautological, given that this is how practically all of the syntax is defined.
- I don't think we have any other productions that refer to or approximate XML Nmtoken. Our _name_ is rather close to XML Name, but its first-character rules are quire different.

**_Unquoted_** literals have a much more restricted range that

> is intentionally close to the XML's [Nmtoken](https://www.w3.org/TR/xml/#NT-Nmtoken),
> with the restrictions that it MUST NOT start with `:`,
> and when starting with `-`, must be followed by a `.` or a digit.
> These restrictions are required not to conflict with _function_ start characters.

Reviewer: This is now a run-on sentence. Perhaps:

```suggestion
is intentionally close to XML's [Nmtoken](https://www.w3.org/TR/xml/#NT-Nmtoken).
To make _unquoted_ literals distinct from _function_ names, a literal 
MUST be quoted if it begins with a `:` or if it begins with a `-` that is 
**not** followed by a `.` or a digit. Literals beginning with a `-` followed
by a `.` or a digit might be used to pass a negative number value to
a _function_ or as a _key_ for a selector.
```

@eemeli An example I didn't think of calling out previously is that unquoted literals are also used on the right hand side of an `option`. I think there are **_lots_** of places where a negative number would be passed there--that would be the most common use:

```
 {$foo :function option=-42}
```

Author: I edited your comment to get the line breaks right, but then still needed to apply the commit locally to get it to stick. I left out the last sentence, as it didn't seem necessary and was a bit confusing in listing only some of the places where a negative literal could hereby be used.

               / %x7D-D7FF      ; omit surrogates
               / %xE000-10FFFF

unquoted       = (unquoted-start / negative-start) *name-char
unquoted-start = name-start / DIGIT / "."
               / %xB7 / %x300-36F / %x203F-2040

> negative-start = "-" ( DIGIT / "." )

Reviewer: Could this be combined?

```abnf
unquoted-start = name-start
               / DIGIT
               / "."
               / %B7 
               / %300-36F 
               / %203F-2040
               / ("-" ( DIGIT / "." ))
```

Also, remind me why we added the combining mark range of U+0300-036F to the quoted literal start? Wouldn't we be better off (given that unquoted literals are a **convenience**) in not adding them? Or U+203F and U+2040?

Author: > Could this be combined?

Yes, they could be combined. I separated them because you mention on Slack earlier that:
> This change has the unhappy aspect of making `unquoted-start` sometimes consume multiple characters. 

> Also, remind me why we added the combining mark range of U+0300-036F to the quoted literal start? Wouldn't we be better off (given that unquoted literals are a **convenience**) in not adding them? Or U+203F and U+2040?

It's because we've been trying to stay as close as possible to the [XML Nmtoken](https://www.w3.org/TR/xml/#NT-Nmtoken), which includes these characters. In other words, we currently have:

```abnf
unquoted-start = name-start / DIGIT / "."
               / %xB7 / %x300-36F / %x203F-2040
name-char  = name-start / DIGIT / "-" / "." / ":"
           / %xB7 / %x300-36F / %x203F-2040
```

and at least technically we could "simplify" these so that we had

```abnf
unquoted-start = name-start / DIGIT / "."
               / %xB7 / %x300-36F / %x203F-2040
name-char  = unquoted-start / "-" / ":"
```

But that seems like it would ultimately raise more questions.

Reviewer: I see... it requires looking back at `Nmtoken` and its definition in XML. That makes it clear.

I did have a comment on Slack about not having the weird two-character side effect, but then today we discussed in teleconference that we were "okay" as a group with that. With that in mind, I thought maybe the single production would be clearer.

Author: I'm fine either way; the end result is the same.

Reviewer 2: > It's because we've been trying to stay as close as possible to the [XML Nmtoken](https://www.w3.org/TR/xml/#NT-Nmtoken), which includes these characters.

I've asked before, and will repeat the question: what is the value of staying _close_ to XML Nmtoken but not matching it exactly? If there's going to be deviation (and unexplained deviation at that), what makes that a better foundation than e.g. [UAX 31 Identifiers](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr31/#Default_Identifier_Syntax), or for that matter of dropping the pretense that this syntax has any relevant relationship to another one?

Reviewer: @gibson042 The main reason we were sticking close to Nmtoken is for compatibility with names found in CLDR, although I tend to agree with you that "sorta consistent with" is not a really useful feature (and is probably a tripping hazard): we want to ensure that `name` values found in CLDR are valid without modification. The `unquoted` production is recycling the production (but I think not for any technical reason--see below)

@eemeli My "simplification" was meant to make top-level productions (what people are trying to understand) as logical as possible. I think it is cleaner to define all of the name-like constructions like:

```abnf
foo       = foo-start *foo-char
foo-start = ...
foo-char  = ...
```

Or, if recycling `name-char`:

```abnf
foo       = foo-start *name-char
foo-start = ...
bar       = bar-start *name-char
bar-start = ...
...
name-char = ...
```

I am going against my slack comment in suggesting we allow consuming two characters because it seems a simpler compromise (that we can call out with a comment) than having alternate `-start` productions.

To @gibson042's point, there is no real reason why we need to use `name-char` in `unquoted` except that we already know it doesn't have any whitespace or other troublesome characters in it and implementers probably already have some code to validate that set. Is that enough of a reason?

Reviewer 3: We really do not need a N+1th incompatible specification for identifiers. It would be greatly preferable to either:

- use an identifier grammar production that exactly matches some existing standard
- use UAX 31 

Any other choice requires an extraordinarily strong justification, which has not been provided here.

Author: I've combined the rules as suggested in the first comment here, so closing this thread. Will reply separately about the identifier basis.
